# ProjectGradeUp

  Students today want a well-defined grade and progress visualization system that shows their current grade and projected possible grades. In addition, students want an easily interpreted visualization showing concentrated study times occurring in a single class or more importantly overlaps across all classes within a semester, as this would allow them to plan study time more effectively and efficiently.

  Institutional attentiveness to education and technology has taken a more dominate role, making the need for an efficient Learning Management Systems (LMS) the top priority in many educational institutions. This has led to the creation of a wide selection of systems such as Desire2Learn, Blackboard, and Moodle. These different LMS satisfy educational institution’s desire for technological innovation, while providing a common interface for teachers and students, and creating an organized system for presenting educational material.

  The high demand of work, school, and social obligations force students to pick and choose which classes to work on, and which classes not to. Uninformed decisions tend to lower the student’s grade, in turn hampering their overall academic performance. There currently exists two methods of thought to efficiently address this issue: grade prediction and student self-projection.

  Desire2Learn provides a method through which students may view a form of self-projection they call “progress projections.” These projections allow students to manage their time and class work preference in accordance with time available and course load. The increased student awareness allows a student to pick and choose which assignment or course to focus on. These tools, in theory, positively affect student efficiency and effectiveness in handling the course loads. Desire2Learn’s solution utilizes predictive analysis technology to give student’s information such as current success rate per course, success rate per course item, and grade per term within a given semester. This allows students to keep a running tally on their progress, while also knowing what areas need more work to improve their grade.

  However, this solution does not address the issue of grade projection, and is only currently available on the Desire2Learn LMS. The solution leaves the students to guess at what they must do in order to achieve a certain letter grade, further preventing students from knowing the approximate difficulty and time consumption of any given assignment. This deficiency with in the application prevents the student from maximizing their potential.

  Therefore, we believe no application exists which allows a student to visually review a projected grade based off their current grade and future course work or visually show concentrated study times required during all their classes and assignments. We address these issue by our completion of the following goals:

  * The creation of a visualization plug-in for the Moodle LMS that shares many similarities to burn-up charts from software engineering. This visualization gives students instant feedback and projected information about their current and potential grade within a class. 
  * The creation of a visualization plug in for the Moodle LMS that shows workloads over the course of the semester across individual and all classes. This visualization gives students a better understanding of current and upcoming difficulties within their course load.
  
  Giving these additions, a student can visually ascertain their grade trajectory within classes and their work load over time in all classes in a few seconds. We believe this will help students to plan ahead and complete work more efficiently and accurately.
